>> A historic amendment could
establish a United States
government office to study UFOs.
A major development
signifying the government
may be ready to treat the
UFO phenomena seriously.
This is Gaia News.
Senator Kirsten Gillibrand
has quietly introduced
an amendment to the National
Defense Authorization Act
for 2022 that if
passed, would radically
transform the US government's
treatment of UFOs.
Nick Pope who worked for
the UK's Ministry of Defense
investigating refers on the
substance of this amendment.
>> The main takeaways obviously
are to replace the existing UAP
task force with an Anomaly
Surveillance and Resolution
Office to loop in almost
every part of the military,
the intelligence community,
and in terms of accountability
to have this
independent watchdog,
the aerial and transmedia
phenomena advisory committee
sitting over a lot of this.
Selecting people from
the Galileo Project,
from the scientific coalition
for ufology and bodies
like that.
It's unprecedented.
>> A significant development in
this Amendment is the inclusion
of civilian scientific experts
specifically mentioning
professor Avi Loeb's
Galileo Project.
But the US government
has had a bumpy history
with civilian scientists.
>> What it's trying to do is
blend together the government
side of this with the scientific
and academic community side.
And I think for
many, many years,
there has been a disconnect.
Government doesn't
do science very well.
Here in the language of
Senator Gillibrand's Amendment,
we have an attempt to fix
that, to try and bring
in scientists, academics,
and loop-in their expertise
so that it can be
properly leveraged.
>> In June of 2021, the
unclassified short version
of the UAP report left
many wanting more.
This Amendment calls for
unclassified reports.
How do they rectify the
government's need for secrecy
with the public's desire
for accountability?
>> There is always this
tension between the classified
and the unclassified.
Clearly, we have a 9-page
unclassified summary
but by all accounts,
there's a classified version
at least double that.
So Senator
Gillibrand's Amendment
acknowledges that there will
always be a classified side.
But also addresses
that important point
about public
accountability by saying
there must continue
to be reports,
but there's a whole raft
of reports required.
I think some annual,
sometimes quarterly.
>> Since the 1940s and the
United States' first detonation
of nuclear weapons, there have
been reports of refers visiting
and even interfering
with nuclear weapons.
This Amendment includes language
requiring reports on, quote,
unidentified aerial
phenomena associated
with military nuclear
assets, including
strategic nuclear weapons
and nuclear-powered ships
and submarines, as well as
any health problems associated
with close contact with UAPs.
>> Immense significance of the
material about human effects,
the physiological effects
of close encounters.
If a pilot has a close encounter
and comes back and finds
that his watch is
telling a different time,
or if he comes
back and finds he's
got sunburn and somebody
says, hey, it's not sunburn,
it's radiation.
I mean, those
statements at which
you can see reflected in the
language in the Gillibrand
Amendment, what they do,
they acknowledge the reality
of this part of the phenomenon.
If you read between
the lines of it,
what it's essentially saying
is these things are happening.
That's the given.
And what they're then saying
is given that these things are
happening, UAP interaction
with nuclear weapons,
close encounters that have
physiological effects,
we need to find out the whats
and the whys a little bit more.
So it's extraordinary
by its implication
of the reality of this.
>> Nick Pope started with the
UK Ministry of Defense studying
the UFO phenomena in
the summer of 1991.
30 years later, what can we
learn about how far we've come?
>> The big picture is that
we have transitioned within
government from a
policy of deny, debunk,
and downplay to a position
where essentially this is real,
now we need to find out what
the heck's going on, and what
our response to it should be.
With my perspective of 30 years
involvement in this topic,
yeah, I think we are moving
to a very good place here.
>> The Gillibrand Amendment
could be taken up by Congress
as early as this month.
For a new perspective,
this is Gaia News.
For more information
on this topic,
check out this content on Gaia.